Now that we revealed all three layers,
we are ready to come back to
the Integration and Processing layer.
Just a simple Google search for
Big Data Processing Pipelines
will bring a vast number of pipelines
with large number of technologies
that support scalable data cleaning,
preparation, and analysis.
How do we make sense of it all to
make sure we use the right tools for
our application?
We will continue our lecture to review
a set of evaluation criteria for
these systems and some of the big data
processing systems based on this criteria.
Depending on the resources we have access
to and characteristics of our application,
we apply several
considerations to evaluate and
pick a software stack for big data.
Of these, first one we consider
is the Execution Model,
and the expressivity of it to support for
various transformations of batch or
streaming data, or
sometimes interactive computing.
Semantics of streaming,
including exactly once or
at least one processing for each event, or
being able to keep the state of the data,
is an important concern for
this execution model.
Latency is another important criteria,
depending on the application.
Having a low latency system
is very important for
applications like online gaming and
hazards management.
Whereas most applications
are less time critical,
like search engine indexing, and would
be fine with a batch processing ability.
Scalability for both small and
large datasets and different
analytical methods and algorithms,
is also an important evaluation criteria.
As well as support for
different programming language
of the libraries used by the analytical
tools that we have access to.
Finally, while all big data
tools provide fault tolerance,
the mechanics of how the fault tolerance is
handled is an important issue to consider.
Let's review five of
the big data processing
engines supported by the Apache Foundation
using this evaluation criteria.
The MapReduce implementation of
Hadoop provides a batch execution
model where the data from HDFS gets
loaded into mappers before processing.
There is no in-memory processing support,
meaning the mappers write the data on
files before the reducers can read it,
resulting in a high-latency and
less scalable execution.
This also hinders
the performance of iterative and
interactive applications that require many
steps of transformations using MapReduce.
Although the only native
programming interface for
MapReduce is in Java, other programming
languages like Python provide modules or
libraries for Hadoop MapReduce
programming, however with less efficiency.
Data replication is the primary
method of fault tolerance,
which in turn affects the scalability and
execution speed further.
Spark was built to support iterative and
interactive big data processing
pipelines efficiently using an in-memory
structure called Resilient Distributed
Datasets, or shortly, RDDs.
In addition to map and reduce operations,
it provides support for
a range of transformation
operations like join and filter.
Any pipeline of transformations can
be applied to these RDD's in-memory,
making Spark's performance very high for
iterative processing.
The RDD extraction is also designed
to handle fault tolerance with
less impact on performance.
In addition to HDFS,
Spark can read data from many storage
platforms and it provides support for
streaming data applications using
a technique called micro-batching.
Its latency can be on the order of
seconds depending on the batch size,
which is relatively slower compared
to native streaming platforms.
Spark has support for a number of
programming languages, including Scala and
Python as the most popular ones,
as well as built-in libraries for
graph processing and machine learning.
Although Flink has very
similar transformations and
in-memory data extractions with Spark,
it provides direct support for
streaming data,
making it a lower-latency framework.
It provides connection interfaces to
streaming data ingestion engines like
Kafka and Flume.
Flink supports application
programming interfaces in Java and
Scala just like Spark.
Starting with it's original
version called Stratosphere,
Flink had it's own execution engine
called Nephele, and had an ability
to run both on Hadoop and also separately
in its own execution environment.
In addition to map and reduce,
Flink provides abstractions for
other data parallel database
patterns like join and group by.
One of the biggest advantage of using
Flink comes from it's optimizer
to pick and apply the best pattern and
execution strategy.
There has been experiments comparing
fault tolerance features of Flink
to those of Sparks, which conclude
that Sparks slightly better for Spark.
The Beam system, from Google,
is a relatively new system for
batch and stream processing with
a data flow programming model.
It initially used Google's own Cloud data
flow as an execution environment, but
Spark and Flink backends for
it have been implemented recently.
It's a low-latency environment with
high reviews on fault tolerance.
It currently provides application
programming interfaces in Java and
Scala, and a Python SDK is in the works.
SDK means software development kit.
Beam provides a very strong streaming and
windowing framework for streaming data.
And it is highly scalable and reliable,
allowing it to make trade-off
decisions between accuracy,
speed, and cost of processing.
Storm has been designed for
stream processing in real
time with very low-latency.
It defined input stream interface
abstractions called spouts, and
computation abstractions called bolts.
Spouts and bolts can be pipelined
together using a data flow approach.
That data gets queued until
the computation acknowledges
the receipt of it.
A master node tracks running jobs and
ensures all data is processed
by the computations on workers.
Nathan Mars, the lead developer for
Storm, built the Lambda Architecture
using Storm for stream processing and
Hadoop MapReduce for batch processing.
The Lambda Architecture
originally used Storm for
speed layer and Hadoop and
HBase for batch and
serving layers, as seen in this diagram.
However, it was later used as a more
general framework that can combine
the results of stream and batch processing
executed in multiple big data systems.
This diagram shows a generalized Lambda
Architecture containing some of the tools
we discussed earlier, including using
Spark for both batch and speed layers.
In this course, we picked Spark
as a big data integration and
processing environment since it supports
most of our evaluation criteria.
And this hybrid data processing
architecture using built-in data querying,
streaming, and analytical libraries.
We will continue our discussion with
Spark and hands-on exercises in Spark.